GIT INSTRUCTIONS

Run these commands in a terminal, one line at a time.
Replace REPOSITORY_URL with your repository's clone URL.
These examples use master as the main branch. If your repository uses main,
replace master with main in the commands below.

1. Clone the repository (first time only)

git clone REPOSITORY_URL SueClinicalNotes
cd SueClinicalNotes

For future sessions, open a terminal in the existing SueClinicalNotes folder.
You do not need to clone it again.

2. Pull the latest changes from master

Before switching branches, commit your current work or stash it.

git checkout master
git pull --ff-only origin master

3. Create a new feature branch

Start from the updated master branch, then run:

git checkout -b feature/sue-1

This creates feature/sue-1 and switches to it. Use a new name, such as
feature/sue-2, for the next task.
To switch to an existing local branch, omit -b:

git checkout feature/sue-1

4. Save and push your changes to the feature branch

After editing your files, review your changes:

git status
git diff

Stage, review, commit, and push:

git add .
git diff --cached
git commit -m "your notes"
git push origin feature/sue-1

Replace "your notes" with a short description of what you changed.
Run git add . from the repository root to stage all changes, including
deletions. Check the staged changes before committing to make sure they
contain only the files you intend to share.
Repeat these steps whenever you have more changes to push.

5. Pull changes from the remote feature branch

With your current work committed or stashed, run:

git checkout feature/sue-1
git pull --ff-only origin feature/sue-1

This downloads updates that someone else pushed to the same feature branch.
It does not bring master changes into your feature branch.
If --ff-only reports that the branches have diverged, stop and resolve the
branch history with your collaborator before pushing.

6. Merge your feature changes into master and push master

First, complete step 4 so your feature changes are committed and pushed.
Then run:

git checkout master
git pull --ff-only origin master
git merge feature/sue-1

Review the merged result and run the project's relevant checks. Once ready:

git push origin master

This publishes the merged changes to the remote master branch.
If Git reports merge conflicts, edit the conflicted files to resolve them,
then run:

git add .
git commit -m "Resolve merge conflicts"

Review and check the result before running git push origin master.
To cancel an unfinished merge instead, run git merge --abort.

If master is protected and direct pushes are blocked, push feature/sue-1
and open a pull request from feature/sue-1 into master on your Git host.
Complete the required reviews and checks, then merge the pull request there.

7. Start your next task

git checkout master
git pull --ff-only origin master
git checkout -b feature/sue-2
